# CS-340

How do you write programs that are maintainable, readable, and adaptable? Especially consider your work on the CRUD Python module from Project One, which you used to connect the dashboard widgets to the database in Project Two. What were the advantages of working in this way? How else could you use this CRUD Python module in the future?

I write programs that are maintainable by following accepted practices as closely as I can. In addition I try to modularize components when possible. The best way to create readable and adaptable code is to understand how your code should function, and what it is doing in each step. This process allows one to simply code, and modularize code for reusability in multiple sections. Lastly, I comment as I write my code in order to help others or myself understand what the code is intending to do. I could use my CRUD module in many database activies. Create, Read, Update, Delete are the basic functions for any data storage. The way I wrote my CRUD code, it contains the data structures that only need syntactic change to fit the scenario I need it in.

How do you approach a problem as a computer scientist? Consider how you approached the database or dashboard requirements that Grazioso Salvare requested. How did your approach to this project differ from previous assignments in other courses? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to create databases to meet other client requests?

A large mindset when approaching a problem is to consider more than one solution when possible. Sometimes there are multiple solutions to a problem, so taking the first one is not always the best option. Also, problem solving begins with a true understanding of the problem. When faced with an obstacle the first step for myself is to recognize what is going wrong, and then educate myself on what is happening. Once I understand the problem, finding solutions becomes much easier. It creates a walkable path with many options to try or apply. Compared to other assignments my approaches remained the same, but I did try a new strategy which was collaborating with my classmates. In a real scenario this may be akin to collaborating with teamates to find solutions for common issues.

What do computer scientists do, and why does it matter? How would your work on this type of project help a company, like Grazioso Salvare, to do their work better?

Computer scientists find and create solutions using technology. A big chunk of work goes into understanding problems, and finding solutions for those problems. Many solutions involve creating tools or applications which are more effecient than the current process. Take for example utilizing mongoDB. The problem in having an employee access MongoDB is the time to learn the technical skills to efficiently use it. The solution is creating a simple interface for the user to access with common pre-defined functionality. As a computer scientist I can create and mold this application in a way that provides the best solution.
